---
layout: post
title: Fable 2 Is Just What was Ordered
author: matt
categories: gamer nerd
---

# The joys of an older, more matured game
So literally the day we got the news that work was shutting it's door to the public I found myself in CEX trading in Blu-Rays, DVDs and a few games and I had my eye on a shiny B-rated FiiO X-5ii Hi Res portable music player. After the transaction and apologising for being part of the problem by actually being in store (to be fair, I was off to work after the purchase) a very well placed Xbox360 shelf caught my eye as I was leaving. Staring straight at me was _Albion_'s favourite hero, fenceforth named ~~me~~ _Sparrow_. This sparked an old memory of High-School in Aberdeen, conversing with a friend from the year below (remember when that was taboo?) about our favourite fantasy RPGs. I had just experienced the splendour of _The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion_ (to which will **ALWAYS** be my favourite TES game) and he was advocating _Fable 2_.

Going into this weird review, I was super excited and thought very highly of the game. Safe to say, now that I've finished the main storyline, my thoughts are slightly less tinted by rose coloured glasses. Lets start off with the story; an orphaned pair of children get enough money to buy a so-called magic music box which would grant them one wish. Low and behold things escalate from there, and an evil tyrannical man named Lucien wants to enslave the world. It's not the most original storyline, but a welcome one. Now on to gameplay - very similar to action-RPGs, _Fable 2_ requires a metric tonne of button mashing for various different reasons. The game actively invites players to interact with the denizens of _Ablion_, which in leiu of scripting long and tedious conversations, involves performing different emotes. By performing these emotes to groups of citizens, or even just a singular one (if you can) changes the way they perceive the hero: love, hate, comedic, scary. It gets old. Very quickly. One gameplay aspect I absolutely adored however, was the ability to buy entire towns if you wanted. There's almost a sims-like minigame where you just go off, buy property and rent them out for cash. It's really great, I own a village, and a gypsy camp. Not to mention the majority of commercial properties in _Albion_. Safe to say I'm loaded. Fighting in _Fable 2_ is lacklustre, boring and buggy. There's no other way to put it. Basic attack is mapped to _x_, whilst ranged attack is _y_, finally you can cast varying spells by holding down _b_. If you're lucky enough, sometimes tapping _a_ while you move the left analogue stick will result in a combat roll. If you're lucky. The combat AI is not too good, some battles can be hard, but it feels more like a fluke, as opposed to there being any strategy involved. I usually got frustrated at some spellcasters that frequent _Brightwood Tower_, because they would spam a powerful spell which you couldn't roll out of (because buggy), so you then get hit in the face by a sword. Rinse, then repeat. Where _Fable 2_ really shines however, is in it's level design. Bear in mind that I didn't study game design, but I do feel as if the game could be used as a case-study in how to create an open-world feeling to essentially a game on rails. I never really felt as if I was being led anywhere intentionally. You could get lost in a forest just as easily as finding your way back to the path. Seriously, in today's delightful slew of open-world games, this approach almost feels fresh and exciting. The implementation was impeccable, and twelve hours later, I still found little nooks and crannies that I hadn't yet discovered.

All in all, I would thoroughly recommend grabbing _Fable 2_ secondhand for a couple of pounds. It's a game you can sink some time into and just do whatever you feel like, whilst also contributing to a little bit of story. Compared to the lengthy campaigns of _Skyrim_, or the crushing complexity of _Dark Souls_, _Fable_ doesn't take itself too seriously. It's kind of like that comedy D&D podcast that always manages to keep you interested (even though you're a stalwart _High Fantasy_ kind of guy). For £2, just buy it and sink your teeth into the world. You won't regret it.
